## Aim:
Complete the following: 
a. Create a package named shape. 
b. Create some classes in the package representing some common shapes like Square, 
Triangle, and Circle. 
c. Import and compile these classes in other program.

## Theory:
> This problem introduces students to concept of packages in Java. A Java package is a mechanism for organizing Java classes into namespaces. 
Java packages can be stored in compressed files called JAR files, allowing classes to download faster as a group rather than one at a time. 
Programmers also typically use packages to organize classes belonging to the same category or providing similar functionality.
*A package provides a unique namespace for the types it contains.
*Classes in the same package can access each other's package-access members.

>In a Java source file, the package that this file's class or classes belong to is specified with the package keyword. This keyword is usually the first keyword in the source file.<br>
<pre><code>package java.awt.event;</code></pre><br>
To use a package's classes inside a Java source file, it is convenient to import the classes from the package with an import declaration. 
The following declaration
<pre><code>import java.awt.event.*;</code></pre><br>
imports all classes from the java.awt.event package, while the next declaration
<pre><code>import java.awt.event.ActionEvent;</code></pre><br>
imports only the ActionEvent class from the package. 
After either of these import declarations, the ActionEvent class can be referenced using its simple class name:
<pre><code>ActionEvent myEvent = new ActionEvent();</code></pre><br>
Classes can also be used directly without an import declaration by using the fully qualified name of the class. For example,
<pre><code>java.awt.event.ActionEvent myEvent = new java.awt.event.ActionEvent();</code></pre><br>
does not require a preceding import declaration.<br>
Note that if you do not use a package declaration, your class ends up in an unnamed package. 
Classes in an unnamed package cannot be imported from classes in any other package.
Classes within a package can access classes and members declared with default access and class members declared with the protected access modifier. 
Default access is enforced when neither the public, protected nor private access modifier is specified in the declaration. <br>
By contrast, classes in other packages cannot access classes and members declared with default access. 
Class members declared as protected can be accessed from the classes in the same package as well as classes in other packages that are subclasses of the declaring class.

## Explaination of the solution:

>To solve the given problem statement, we need to create a package called **Shape**. A good practice in Java is to always name the packages such that there is very less chances of the canonical name of the classes inside the package to clash with any other class that may be written by somebody else. Hence let us name our package as following: **org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape**. Inside this package, let us create an interface, **IShape** which will represent all the Shape classes.  All the classes which represent different shapes should be able to calculate their area and perimeter. Hence let us add **calcArea()** and **calcPerimeter()** methods to the interface *IShape*. Now create concrete classes for shapes, **Square**, **Rectangle**, **Triangle** and **Circle** in the package shape such that all of them implement interface *IShape*. The classes will have to implement all the methods of the interface accordingly. Now create a separate package which will have the client class which will use the classes in the shape package. Let us name the client package as **org.fsmk.mca.example7.client**. We will create a class called **Client** which will have the main method. In the **main()** method, we will accept from users input to understand which Shape they want to access, get the necessary dimensions of the shape and then print the calculated area and perimeter for the shape.

## Code :

###Create *IShape.java* in package *org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape*

package org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape;

public interface IShape 
{

	//Method to Calculate the Area of the shape
	public double calcArea();
	
	//Method to Calculate the Perimeter of the shape
	public double calcPerimeter();
	
	//Method to Calculate the name of the shape
	public String getName();
	
}

###Create *Square.java* in package *org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape*

package org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape;

public class Square implements IShape {

	private int m_side;

	public Square(int side)
	{
		m_side =side;
	}
	
	@Override
	public double calcArea() {
		return m_side*m_side;
	}

	
	@Override
	public double calcPerimeter() {
		return 4*m_side;
	}
	
	@Override
	public String getName() {
		return "Square";
	}

}

###Create *Rectangle.java* in package *org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape*

package org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape;

public class Rectangle implements IShape {

	private int m_breadth;
	private int m_length;

	public Rectangle(int length, int breadth)
	{
		m_length = length;
		m_breadth = breadth;
		
	}
	
	@Override
	public double calcArea() {
		return m_length*m_breadth;
	}

	@Override
	public double calcPerimeter() {
		return 2*(m_length*m_breadth);
	}
	
	@Override
	public String getName() {
		return "Rectangle";
	}
}

###Create *Circle.java* in package *org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape*

package org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape;

public class Circle implements IShape {

	int m_radius;
	
	public Circle(int radius)
	{
		m_radius = radius;
	}
	
	@Override
	public double calcArea() {
		//Area of circle = PI * Square of radius of the circle
		return Math.PI*m_radius*m_radius;
	}

	@Override
	public double calcPerimeter() {
		//Perimeter of circle = 2 * PI * radius of the circle
		return 2*Math.PI*m_radius;
	}

	@Override
	public String getName() {
		return "Circle";
	}
}

###Create *Triangle.java* in package *org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape*

package org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape;

public class Triangle implements IShape {

	int m_s1;
	int m_s2;
	int m_s3;
	
	public Triangle(int s1, int s2, int s3)
	{
		m_s1 = s1;
		m_s2 = s2;
		m_s3 = s3;
	}
	
	@Override
	public double calcArea() {
		//As per Heron's formula
		float semi_perimeter = (m_s1+m_s2+m_s3)/2;
		float s = semi_perimeter * (semi_perimeter -m_s1) * (semi_perimeter -m_s2) * (semi_perimeter -m_s3);
		double area = Math.sqrt(s);
		return area;
	}

	@Override
	public double calcPerimeter() {
		//Perimeter of the triangle is sum of the three sides of the triangle
		return m_s1+m_s2+m_s3;
	}
	
	@Override
	public String getName() {
		return "Triangle";
	}
}

###Create *Client.java* in package *org.fsmk.mca.example7.client*

package org.fsmk.mca.example7.client;

import java.util.Scanner;

import org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape.IShape;
import org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape.Circle;
import org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape.Rectangle;
import org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape.Square;
import org.fsmk.mca.example7.shape.Triangle;

public class Client 
{
	
	private static Scanner scanner;
	
	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
		
		while(true)
		{
			// Initialize Scanner to get inputs from the console/STDIN
			scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
	
			//Print Description message
			System.out.println("Welcome to the program to demonstrate usage of classes from another package.");
	        System.out.println("1. Square");
	        System.out.println("2. Rectangle");
	        System.out.println("3. Circle");
	        System.out.println("4. Triangle");
	        System.out.println("5. Exit the program!!!");
	        System.out.println("Please select one of the option given below to choose the shape for which you want to find the area or perimeter.");
	        System.out.println("Your option: ");
	        
	        int shape_choice = scanner.nextInt();
	        switch(shape_choice)
	        {
	        	case 1:
	        	{
					//Get dimension of the side of the qquare
	        		System.out.println("Enter the length of a side of the square:");
	        		int side = scanner.nextInt();
	        		Square square = new Square(side);
	        		calcValue(square);
	        		break;
	        	}
	        	case 2:
	        	{
					//Get dimensions of the sides of the rectangle
	        		System.out.println("Enter the length of the rectangle:");
	        		int length = scanner.nextInt();
	        		System.out.println("Enter the breadth of the rectangle:");
	        		int breadth = scanner.nextInt();
	        		Rectangle rect = new Rectangle(length, breadth);
	        		calcValue(rect);
	        		break;
	        	}
	        	case 3:
	        	{
					//Get dimension of the radius of the circle
	        		System.out.println("Enter the radius of the circle:");
	        		int radius = scanner.nextInt();
	        		Circle circle = new Circle(radius);
	        		calcValue(circle);
	        		break;
	        	}
	        	case 4:
	        	{
				    //Get dimensions of the sides of the triangle
	        		System.out.println("Enter the length of the first side of the triangle:");
	        		int first = scanner.nextInt();
	        		System.out.println("Enter the length of the second side of the triangle:");
	        		int second = scanner.nextInt();
	        		System.out.println("Enter the length of the third side of the triangle:");
	        		int third = scanner.nextInt();
	        		Triangle triangle = new Triangle(first, second, third);
	        		calcValue(triangle);
	        		break;
	        	}
	        	case 5:
	        	{
					//Exit the program
	        		System.out.println("Program is exitting!!!");
	        		System.exit(0);
	        	}   
	        }
		}       
	}

	private static void calcValue(IShape shape) {
		System.out.println("Area of "+shape.getName()+" is :"+shape.calcArea());
		System.out.println("Perimeter of "+shape.getName()+" is :"+shape.calcPerimeter());
		System.out.println("\n\n");
	}

}

##Output:

Welcome to the program to demonstrate usage of classes from another package.<br>
1. Square<br>
2. Rectangle<br>
3. Circle<br>
4. Triangle<br>
5. Exit the program!!!<br>
Please select one of the option given below to choose the shape for which you want to find the area or perimeter.<br>
Your option:<br> 
1<br>
Enter the side of the square:<br>
10<br>
Area of Square is :100.0<br>
Perimeter of Square is :40.0<br>
<br>
<br>
Welcome to the program to demonstrate usage of classes from another package.<br>
1. Square<br>
2. Rectangle<br>
3. Circle<br>
4. Triangle<br>
5. Exit the program!!!<br>
Please select one of the option given below to choose the shape for which you want to find the area or perimeter.<br>
Your option:<br> 
2<br>
Enter the length of the rectangle:<br>
20<br>
Enter the breadth of the rectangle:<br>
30<br>
Area of Rectangle is :600.0<br>
Perimeter of Rectangle is :1200.0<br>
<br>
<br>
Welcome to the program to demonstrate usage of classes from another package.<br>
1. Square<br>
2. Rectangle<br>
3. Circle<br>
4. Triangle<br>
5. Exit the program!!!<br>
Please select one of the option given below to choose the shape for which you want to find the area or perimeter.<br>
Your option:<br> 
3<br>
Enter the radius of the circle:<br>
10<br>
Area of Circle is :314.1592653589793<br>
Perimeter of Circle is :62.83185307179586<br>
<br>
<br>
Welcome to the program to demonstrate usage of classes from another package.<br>
1. Square<br>
2. Rectangle<br>
3. Circle<br>
4. Triangle<br>
5. Exit the program!!!<br>
Please select one of the option given below to choose the shape for which you want to find the area or perimeter.<br>
Your option:<br>
4<br>
Enter the length of the first side of the triangle:<br>
5<br>
Enter the length of the second side of the triangle:<br>
6<br>
Enter the length of the third side of the triangle:<br>
4<br>
Area of Triangle is :6.48074069840786<br>
Perimeter of Triangle is :15.0<br>
<br>
<br>
Welcome to the program to demonstrate usage of classes from another package.<br>
1. Square<br>
2. Rectangle<br>
3. Circle<br>
4. Triangle<br>
5. Exit the program!!!<br>
Please select one of the option given below to choose the shape for which you want to find the area or perimeter.<br>
Your option:<br>  
5<br>
Program is exitting!!!<br>
