# Installation Guide

Eclipse is a Java-based application and, as such, requires a Java runtime environment (JRE) in order to run. It is used to write, debug and execute a Java program.

Following are the steps to download and install Eclipse on Ubuntu
1. Launch the terminal by pressing `Alt + Ctrl + t`
2. Type `sudo -s` to provide the root permission.
3. Enter the password when prompted. Note that there will be no feedback for the password. Hit enter.
4. Fetch the software list by using the command `apt-get update`
5. Install the software using the command `apt-get install eclipse`
6. Press `Y` to continue the download and the installation of Eclipse.

*Note*
1. Process to install eclipse on `Debian`, `Kunbuntu` and `Xubuntu` is the same as that on Ubuntu.
2. Process of installing eclipse on `Redhat` is similar to that on Ubuntu except for the following commands--
a) Enter `sudo yum update` in the terminal to fetch the software list.
b) Install the eclipse software using the command `sudo yum install eclipse`
3. Installation of eclipse on `Fedora`, `Centos` and `SUSE Linux` is the same as that on `Redhat`.


Steps to run a Java program on eclipse
1. Hit `Alt + F2` to open the dialogue box and enter eclipse to open the application.
2. Workspace launcher is prompted if the application has been installed. Hit `OK` to continue.
3. `Welcome to Eclipse` page is displayed.
4. Click on `Workbench` which is found at the top right corner of the page to open the eclipse IDE(Integrated Development Environment).
5. To add a project, click on File and select New and select Project.
6. In the list of projects, select `Java Project` and click `Next`.
7. Enter the name of a project.
8. If the `Use default location` box is unselected then using the browse feature a different location can be selected.
9. `Open Associative Perspective` dialogue box opens which suggests the perspective which is suited for java Development. Select `Remember my decision` and click `Yes`.
10. To add a class to the project, right click on the project name listed on the left hand side in the eclipse IDE. Select `New` and then `Class`.
11. In the class name, enter the name of the class.
12. Choose the modifier as required.
13. Select `public static void main(String[]args)` in the stubs and click `Finish` located in the bottom right corner.
14. In the editor portlet, some code generated by eclipse exists. This code depends on the options we select while creating the class.
15. Enter the code in the editor portlet and save the file by clicking on `File` option in the menu and selecting `save` or alternately use the shortcut `Ctrl + s`.
16. To run the program, right click on the editor. Select `Run As` and click on `Java application`.
17. The output can be seen on the output console if anything is printed. If there were any errors then they would have been displayed in the `Problems` portlet.

The above content is adopted from the Java tutorials developed under Spoken Tutorials Project. Students can go through the videos to get much better information and understanding of the subject. The tutorials can be downloaded from [here](http://files.spoken-tutorial.org/disc-source/java.zip)